---
layout: main
date: 2018-08-26
---

_Markup Declaration_ is a movement for clarifying and
formalizing our understanding of declarative markup.

Declarative markup is the practice of identifying what information in
a document is, typically separate from how it should be processed or
presented. Declarative markup can be used to identify information
semantically (*this* is a name, *this* is the name of a person, *this*
is the name of a process, *this* is a step in a procedure, *this*
portion of the document is related to the circulatory system), or
structurally (*this* is a section, paragraph, list, item in a list).

Advantages of using declarative markup rather than processing or
application specific markup include: the ability to do multiple things
with the same information source without editing the source file; to
have multiple presentation formats for the same content including
visual and accessible presentations; to use the same documents in many
different applications for different vendors; and to lengthen the time
in which the documents are likely to be useable.

While documents with declarative markup are often encoded in XML, XML
vocabularies do not need to be declarative and declarative markup does
not need to be in XML. The web is full of voices that champion clean,
readable HTML documents styled with CSS. The academic fields of
Digital Humanities and Corpus Linguistics, as well as companies from
publishing houses to aircraft manufacturers, are developing more and
more innovative uses for declarative markup.

We need a central space in which to discuss, work on, and work with
these technologies.

Markup Declaration is a community espousing a philosophy of markup
that enables platform and system independence. The community will
offer training and instructional materials, a collaborative
infrastructure for developing code, and a coherent,
community-generated best-practice document for markup practitioners.

Your contribution is central to realising this vision. Whether you’re
a markup veteran, or just starting to find out what markup has to
offer you, we know that you have a lot to offer markup. We need
philosophers, coders, writers, instructors, speakers, and - most of
all - people who are willing to share their thoughts, ideas, and
experiences.

Without you, there’s no community; without community, there’s no
Markup Declaration.

If you’re interested in finding out more, [contact us](/contact),
or [join in the conversation](https://www.mulberrytech.com/markupdeclaration.html)!

